All right, so now write our Jenkins file the easy way.
And again, for this one, we are going to copy a GitHub repository display file, display a list of
S3 buckets, and we already took care of the permissions.
So if you haven't watched the previous lecture on Jenkins permission to ensure how to attach policies
to the agent, please check it out before trying this demo.
All right, so let's jump into the Jenkins console.
And for the repository, we're going to copy this Kubernetes code repository.
This repository is a part of installing something in the Kubernetes cluster.
Don't worry.
We're going to have a separate chapter on deploying Docker and containers into Kubernetes.
So what's in this repository is not super important.
For now, we're going to copy over everything from this GitHub repository to our Jenkins Java environment,
and then we just want to display this red file.
All right.
Going back to the Jenkins console, click new item.
I'm just going to name it Jenkins file, Easy Way, click pipeline click.
Okay.
All right.
So this is the pipeline script.
So what you have to do is click the sample pipeline and click Helloworld.
And now I click this pipeline syntax.
So the first thing we want to do is copy the GitHub repository inside this pipeline syntax.
It gives you all the things that you can do from the Jenkins file.
For example, the Ansible, you can invoke Ansible playbook or you can build a job, you can check out,
you can change current directory so you can do a bunch of stuff for GitHub repository.
You need to do a checkout.
So check out from version control and then you need to give the repository URL.
So if I go back to my GitHub repository copy over the DPS link pasted here, this is a public repository,
so we don't need any credentials and the brand specify it says Master, we are going to check what is
the main branch.
The main branch is named man.
So we are going to change it here to main and then generate pipeline script.
All right.
So this is the Jenkins file syntax.
So I'm going to copy this, go back to my job and inside this step, I'm just going to paste it.
And then.
I'm going to name this as copy repository and then we want to display the read me file so you can either
do it in the same step or the next stage.
So just for fun, I'm going to create another stage.
So I'm just going to do this.
And I'm going to name this display.
Read me file.
Okay.
And then I'm going to click pipeline syntax again.
So to display the file, we need to run a cat command, which is a Unix command, which is like a shell
script.
So we need to find S-H.
So there are a lot of options and the more plugins you install, the more options you will see.
Here you go, shell script.
And the shell script is Cat and the name of the file.
So read me dot MD without MD.
All right, generate pipeline script.
Here you go.
You copy this.
Go back to the Jenkins job and then delete this line and then just pass this.
Okay.
And the last step is we want to display the S3 buckets.
So I'm going to create another stage.
And that's also a weekly command.
So we are going to run at least three L's.
And then I'm going to rename this.
To list as three buckets.
Click, click, save.
Then build now.
All right, it's building.
Okay.
So now let's check out the output.
Console output, you can see after it ran the checkout command, it's actually cloning the remote git
repository so it cloned it.
And on the next stage which is displayed, read my file.
I'm doing Cat Red Dot md.
So it's actually displaying the whole read me file.
So at this point, the whole repository is copied over and this is very, very popular.
When we go through the real world projects, it will see the first step will almost always be copying
over the repository, using the checkout command, and then we can run any of these files.
All right.
So it does all that.
And then we are running it up as three ls command all right.
And it displayed all the SW three buckets in this region.
All right, folks.
So this is how you write the Jenkins file the easy way.
And I'm going to use this a lot so you can see the other options as well.
It has a lot of options, so it's super handy.
You don't need to remember any of those commands to write the Jenkins file, and we're going to see
this in action in future projects as well.
All right, folks, hopefully this was helpful.
I'll see you guys in Gulf in the next video.